Q: Please describe any experiences and/or challenges that may have shaped your intellectual and personal development

A: I have two goals in my research: to incorporate mathematics to machine learning for interpretability, and to apply machine learning to real-world scenarios for scability. My interest lying at the intersection of machine learning and mathematics, particularly optimization, was sparked during my research on solving combinatorial optimization with generative models. Prior to this research, my concept of machine learning was primarily focused on developing advancing model structures and adjust hyper-parameters. However, this research gave me the opportunity to delve into injecting mathematical principles to machine learning models. I spent considerable efforts conducting mathematical derivations and analyzing the generative model from a mathematical perspective. I still remember how excited I was when my proposed mathematical methods successfully improved the performance of the machine learning solver, making the solver both interpretable and powerful. I was immediately drawn by the magical ability of mathematics and eager to learn more about how to incorporate mathematical knowledge to machine learning. Nevertheless, I also noticed in this research that pure-mathematical solver suffered from low-efficiency problems. Solving a large-scale optimization problem may take over an hour with an exact solver but only few seconds with machine learning models. Therefore, machine learning serves as a powerful tool to extend the solver to large-scale problems, promoting the scability. Based on this understanding, I aspired to improve my understanding of machine learning and mathematics and unleash their synergy for both scability and interpretability, with optimization problems as the testbed.

Q: Provide insight into your potential to contribute to a community of inclusion, belonging, and respect in which scholars with diverse perspectives, abilities, and experiences can learn and collaborate productively and positively.

A: Throughout my journey in SJTU, I have demonstrated a commitment to fostering inclusive and collaborative environments. As a group leader of SJTU social practice, I led a team with over 100 members to investigate the development of tourist cities and identified opportunities for technological applications to enhance tourism. During the practice, I prioritized cultivating a cooperative atmosphere by encouraging all members to engage in brainstorms and fostering an environment that values diverse perspectives. Our collective efforts and achievements were recognized by the local enterprises and governments. Notably, we received the Third Prize of "Knowledge and Practice Cup" in Shanghai College Students' Social Practice Competition and I was awarded Advanced Individual in the Social Practice Group. 

Beyond this, my involvement in international volunteer service, such as organizing activities for the Shanghai Marathon and Half Marathon, showcases my dedication to community engagement. I took on roles as an organizer, scheduling interviews, and coordinating tasks, ensuring a seamless volunteer experience.

In the academic realm, as a teaching assistant for the Data Structure course designed for the ACM Honors class, I collaborated with Prof. Yong Yu to create an inclusive learning environment. My efforts were focused on facilitating student discussions and cooperation, leading to positive feedback from the class. As a result, all students expressed satisfaction with the course's learning atmosphere. These experiences highlight my ability to contribute meaningfully to a community of inclusion, belonging, and respect. These experiences highlight my ability to contribute meaningfully to a community of inclusion, belonging, and respect.